hi welcome to our warm-ups with the horn
trader today's warm-up is a flexibility
at a range study and so something that
we're all used to but I'm gonna share
some of my insight with it first of all
we're gonna break it up into three parts
and that would be the arpeggio
now you want to make that as smooth as
possible and possibly as fast as
possible on as you better you get at
this
you can do it in a triplet form which is
even faster or a double form da da de da
dee da da da da da de not a tan it e it
doesn't matter in fact the more
different ways you try it to break it up
the better because music always comes at
us in different variations we'll do the
triple the triple meter form
so that's the purse the first half of
this exercise and the next would be a
flexibility going up to the high seat
uses many false fingerings as you can
and then the third part of this exercise
is the range study now I'll try and do
this all in one breath if you have to
break it up in this next third part of
the warm-up this is where you would
breathe
so I went to the Heike and it's not
important how high you play it's trying
to be as fluid as possible and later
down in the in the Dark Side of the Moon
trumpet fingering combinations it gets
pretty hard and so if you'd only have
like a short time to practice those
would be the places to practice not the
things that you do easy so let's put
this whole exercise together
so the most important part about that is
is having your sound sound consistent
being flexible kind of going over those
notes like you're skipping a rock over
the over a pond and a big breath at the
beginning but not a tight or strenuous
breath but a nice relaxed diaphragmatic
breath we'll get into the diaphragmatic
breath later on in these horn trader
warmups
let's see if this sounds like an
attributive function
this is almost like a glissando it comes
our helicopters
I digress okay back to our flexibility
study first
okay one or two
now the lower you go the more air you
expend low notes take more air but you
can also expand these exercises by going
up to the next partial so let's see if
we get that high a flat out of this one
just barely made it but it's important
like I said earlier it's not important
how high you play it's ways to practice
and try to be as fluid on all the valve
combinations as possible so if that
means you have to go a little slower it
a little lower that's fine because of a
good sound and musical interpretation
will always get you through more music
high notes here now you notice I use a
little less air but I managed and I went
a little slower that's because those
notes are harder to slide and like I
said you want to be as fluid as possible
let's see if we can do this F sharp and
get out of this
mr. Neff sharp by that much
better still room for improvement
I hope you make great improvement with
this little excerpt by giving you stay
tuned to warm ups with the horn trader
we'll see how the next one